dnsblock
========
*place-holder*

Overview
--------
This is a Python library used to automatically generate DNS zone files from maintained *Blocklists*.

The overall intent is to have one library that can generate zone files tailored to different resolver software.

Which means, it can generate zone files for Unbound, DNSMaq, etc.

What's the point?
-----------------
Blocklists are curated lists of hosts you may want to block on your local network.

Blocklists are maintained and updated regularly.

Dnsblock allows you to automatically pull down the content of multiple blocklists, build / rebuild your zone file, and restart your resolver software.

How does it work?
-----------------
1. Create a txt file that contains all blocklists you want to ingest entries from.
2. Create a Python script that leverages dnsblock to build your zone file.
3. Schedule a cron job or systemd timer to run the script from step 2.

Installation & Documentation
----------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    *place-holder*
    
`Documentation  <link URL>`_

Setup
-----

* dnsblock has `CLI tools <link URL>`_. To use them, you must setup a config file.
* For config details and all setup options, see the full `setup guide  <link URL>`_.

**Quick Setup Example - Unbound**

1. Create `~/.config/dnsblock/blocklist.txt`
2. Add each blocklist you want to use on its own line
3. Create a `.py` file with the following,

.. code-block:: python

    from dnsblock import data
    
    # Build an Unbound zone file to block traffic
    build_zone = data.BuildZone('local-zone: "', '" refuse', '/etc/zone/file')
    build_zone.build_zone_file()
    
The above code creates a zone file that looks like;

.. code-block:: text

    # Generated by dnsblock on 2022-12-07 at 02:05:32
    # https://github.com/swills1/dnsblock
    server:
    local-zone: "pixel.ad" refuse
    local-zone: "centro.pixel.ad" refuse
    ...
    
* The key line in the above code starts with `build_zone =`.
* This Class takes four arguments. Only zonefilepath is mandatory.

**filehead** - A string at the top of your zone file if you software calls for one.

**prefix** - A string that goes before the hostname.

**suffix** - A string that goes behind the hostname.

**zonefilepath** - File path to save the zone file.



    